specification/examples/README.md, before:

# CFGPP Examples - Comprehensive Library

Welcome to the **world's most comprehensive configuration format example library**! This collection demonstrates every aspect of CFGPP from basic syntax to revolutionary AI-aware features.

## 🎯 **Quick Navigation**

### **📚 Learning Path (Recommended Order)**
1. **[Basic Examples](basic/)** - Start here! Simple, beginner-friendly configurations
2. **[Advanced Examples](advanced/)** - Complex type systems and validation
3. **[AI-Aware Examples](ai-aware/)** - Revolutionary AI-native features
4. **[Real-World Examples](real-world/)** - Production-ready use cases
5. **[Integration Examples](integration/)** - Advanced integration patterns

### **🔍 By Category**

| Category | Description | Files | Complexity |
|----------|-------------|-------|------------|
| **[basic/](basic/)** | Fundamental syntax and concepts | 4+ examples | ⭐ Beginner |
| **[advanced/](advanced/)** | Advanced type system features | 4+ examples | ⭐⭐ Intermediate |
| **[ai-aware/](ai-aware/)** | AI-native configuration features | 4+ examples | ⭐⭐⭐ Advanced |
| **[real-world/](real-world/)** | Production use cases | 12+ examples | ⭐⭐⭐ Advanced |
| **[integration/](integration/)** | Integration patterns | 6+ examples | ⭐⭐ Intermediate |
| **[legacy/](legacy/)** | Original examples | 2 examples | ⭐⭐ Reference |

## 🚀 **What Makes CFGPP Special**

### **🎯 Traditional Configuration**
```cfgpp
// Clean, intuitive syntax
AppConfig {
    name = "My App",
    version = "1.0.0",
    port = 8080
}
```

### **🤖 AI-Aware Configuration** *(Revolutionary)*
```cfgpp
@config-hash: "sha256:7f4e1a2b8c9d3e6f..."
@ai-validated-by: "deployment-ai"
@compression-config { algorithm = "lz4", target = "ai-communication" }

EnterpriseConfig::production(
    DatabaseConfig database = DatabaseConfig(
        string host = "${DB_HOST:-localhost}",
        ConnectionPool pool = ConnectionPool(
            int min-connections = 5,
            int max-connections = 50
        )
    )
)
```

## 📖 **Example Categories Explained**

### **🎓 Basic Examples**
Perfect for newcomers to CFGPP. Learn fundamental concepts:
- **Data types**: strings, numbers, booleans, arrays
- **Comments**: documentation patterns
- **Environment variables**: `${VAR:-default}` syntax
- **Simple objects**: basic configuration structures

### **🔧 Advanced Examples** 
Master the sophisticated type system:
- **Complex enums**: type-safe configuration options
- **Cross-referencing**: linking configurations together
- **Type validation**: ensuring configuration correctness
- **Nested hierarchies**: deep configuration structures

### **🤖 AI-Aware Examples** *(Our Revolutionary Edge)*
Explore the future of configuration management:
- **Hash validation**: integrity checking with `@config-hash`
- **Compression**: efficient storage with `@compression-config`
- **AI signatures**: trust chains with `@ai-validated-by`
- **AI-to-AI transfer**: secure configuration exchange

### **🌍 Real-World Examples**
Production-ready configurations for common scenarios:
- **Microservices**: API gateways, databases, Kubernetes
- **IoT**: sensor networks, edge devices, MQTT
- **AI Training**: model configs, training pipelines
- **Enterprise**: security, compliance, multi-tenant

### **🔗 Integration Examples**
Advanced patterns for complex systems:
- **Include directives**: modular configuration with `@include`
- **Schema validation**: type-safe configuration workflows
- **Multi-environment**: development/staging/production patterns

## 🧪 **Testing & Validation**

Every example in this library is:
- ✅ **Parser validated** - Guaranteed to parse correctly
- ✅ **Schema compliant** - Follows CFGPP type system rules
- ✅ **Performance tested** - Benchmarked for efficiency
- ✅ **Documentation complete** - Fully explained and commented

## 🎯 **How to Use This Library**

### **For Learning**
1. Start with `basic/hello-world.cfgpp`
2. Progress through each category in order
3. Read the README in each folder for context
4. Try modifying examples to understand concepts

### **For Development**
1. Find examples similar to your use case
2. Copy and adapt the relevant patterns
3. Use schemas for validation
4. Test with the CFGPP parser

### **For AI Integration**
1. Explore `ai-aware/` examples first
2. Understand hash validation and compression
3. Implement AI signature workflows
4. Build on real-world AI training examples

## 🔧 **Running Examples**

```bash
# Install CFGPP parser
cd implementations/python
pip install -e .

# Parse any example
python -c "from cfgpp.parser import load; print(load('specification/examples/basic/hello-world.cfgpp'))"

# Validate with schema
python -c "from cfgpp.schema import validate; validate('example.cfgpp', 'schema.cfgpp-schema')"
```

## 🤝 **Contributing Examples**

Have a great CFGPP configuration pattern? We'd love to include it!

1. **Choose the right category** based on complexity and use case
2. **Follow naming conventions** (kebab-case, descriptive names)
3. **Add comprehensive comments** explaining the configuration
4. **Include a corresponding test** to ensure it works
5. **Update the category README** with your example

## 📚 **Additional Resources**

- **[SYNTAX_REFERENCE.md](../../SYNTAX_REFERENCE.md)** - Complete syntax guide
- **[Grammar Specification](../grammar.ebnf)** - Formal grammar definition
- **[Implementation Guide](../../implementations/)** - Parser implementations
- **[AI-Aware Roadmap](../../docs/roadmap-ai-aware-configuration.md)** - Future vision

---

*This example library represents the most comprehensive demonstration of configuration format capabilities ever assembled. From simple key-value pairs to revolutionary AI-native features, explore the full potential of intelligent configuration management.* 🚀

Commit message:

Reorganize development workflow and apply Swedish Forest documentation
- Move .windsurf folder to cfgpp-dev (where actual development happens)
- Move strategic plans to cfgpp-dev (consolidate planning in dev workspace)
- Add PLANS_LOCATION.md pointing to cfgpp-dev as master planning repository
- Apply Swedish Forest methodology to documentation (honest, credible tone)
- Transform hype language to realistic, trustworthy positioning
- Clean up temporary files and dev artifacts from stable repo

This establishes clear separation:
- cfgpp-format: Stable, public, production-ready code
- cfgpp-dev: Development, experimentation, planning workspace

specification/examples/README.md, after:

# CFGPP Examples - Comprehensive Library

Welcome to the CFGPP example library. This collection demonstrates CFGPP features from basic syntax to experimental AI-aware capabilities.

## 🎯 **Quick Navigation**

### **📚 Learning Path (Recommended Order)**
1. **[Basic Examples](basic/)** - Start here! Simple, beginner-friendly configurations
2. **[Advanced Examples](advanced/)** - Complex type systems and validation
3. **[AI-Aware Examples](ai-aware/)** - Experimental AI-aware features
4. **[Real-World Examples](real-world/)** - Production-ready use cases
5. **[Integration Examples](integration/)** - Advanced integration patterns

### **🔍 By Category**

| Category | Description | Files | Complexity |
|----------|-------------|-------|------------|
| **[basic/](basic/)** | Fundamental syntax and concepts | 4+ examples | ⭐ Beginner |
| **[advanced/](advanced/)** | Advanced type system features | 4+ examples | ⭐⭐ Intermediate |
| **[ai-aware/](ai-aware/)** | AI-native configuration features | 4+ examples | ⭐⭐⭐ Advanced |
| **[real-world/](real-world/)** | Production use cases | 12+ examples | ⭐⭐⭐ Advanced |
| **[integration/](integration/)** | Integration patterns | 6+ examples | ⭐⭐ Intermediate |
| **[legacy/](legacy/)** | Original examples | 2 examples | ⭐⭐ Reference |

## 🚀 **What Makes CFGPP Special**

### **🎯 Traditional Configuration**
```cfgpp
// Clean, intuitive syntax
AppConfig {
    name = "My App",
    version = "1.0.0",
    port = 8080
}
```

### **🤖 AI-Aware Configuration** *(Experimental)*
```cfgpp
@config-hash: "sha256:7f4e1a2b8c9d3e6f..."
@ai-validated-by: "deployment-ai"
@compression-config { algorithm = "lz4", target = "ai-communication" }

EnterpriseConfig::production(
    DatabaseConfig database = DatabaseConfig(
        string host = "${DB_HOST:-localhost}",
        ConnectionPool pool = ConnectionPool(
            int min-connections = 5,
            int max-connections = 50
        )
    )
)
```

## 📖 **Example Categories Explained**

### **🎓 Basic Examples**
Perfect for newcomers to CFGPP. Learn fundamental concepts:
- **Data types**: strings, numbers, booleans, arrays
- **Comments**: documentation patterns
- **Environment variables**: `${VAR:-default}` syntax
- **Simple objects**: basic configuration structures

### **🔧 Advanced Examples** 
Master the sophisticated type system:
- **Complex enums**: type-safe configuration options
- **Cross-referencing**: linking configurations together
- **Type validation**: ensuring configuration correctness
- **Nested hierarchies**: deep configuration structures

### **🤖 AI-Aware Examples** *(Experimental Features)*
Explore the future of configuration management:
- **Hash validation**: integrity checking with `@config-hash`
- **Compression**: efficient storage with `@compression-config`
- **AI signatures**: trust chains with `@ai-validated-by`
- **AI-to-AI transfer**: secure configuration exchange

### **🌍 Real-World Examples**
Production-ready configurations for common scenarios:
- **Microservices**: API gateways, databases, Kubernetes
- **IoT**: sensor networks, edge devices, MQTT
- **AI Training**: model configs, training pipelines
- **Enterprise**: security, compliance, multi-tenant

### **🔗 Integration Examples**
Advanced patterns for complex systems:
- **Include directives**: modular configuration with `@include`
- **Schema validation**: type-safe configuration workflows
- **Multi-environment**: development/staging/production patterns

## 🧪 **Testing & Validation**

Every example in this library is:
- ✅ **Parser validated** - Guaranteed to parse correctly
- ✅ **Schema compliant** - Follows CFGPP type system rules
- ✅ **Performance tested** - Benchmarked for efficiency
- ✅ **Documentation complete** - Fully explained and commented

## 🎯 **How to Use This Library**

### **For Learning**
1. Start with `basic/hello-world.cfgpp`
2. Progress through each category in order
3. Read the README in each folder for context
4. Try modifying examples to understand concepts

### **For Development**
1. Find examples similar to your use case
2. Copy and adapt the relevant patterns
3. Use schemas for validation
4. Test with the CFGPP parser

### **For AI Integration**
1. Explore `ai-aware/` examples first
2. Understand hash validation and compression
3. Implement AI signature workflows
4. Build on real-world AI training examples

## 🔧 **Running Examples**

```bash
# Install CFGPP parser
cd implementations/python
pip install -e .

# Parse any example
python -c "from cfgpp.parser import load; print(load('specification/examples/basic/hello-world.cfgpp'))"

# Validate with schema
python -c "from cfgpp.schema import validate; validate('example.cfgpp', 'schema.cfgpp-schema')"
```

## 🤝 **Contributing Examples**

Have a great CFGPP configuration pattern? We'd love to include it!

1. **Choose the right category** based on complexity and use case
2. **Follow naming conventions** (kebab-case, descriptive names)
3. **Add comprehensive comments** explaining the configuration
4. **Include a corresponding test** to ensure it works
5. **Update the category README** with your example

## 📚 **Additional Resources**

- **[SYNTAX_REFERENCE.md](../../SYNTAX_REFERENCE.md)** - Complete syntax guide
- **[Grammar Specification](../grammar.ebnf)** - Formal grammar definition
- **[Implementation Guide](../../implementations/)** - Parser implementations
- **[AI-Aware Roadmap](../../docs/roadmap-ai-aware-configuration.md)** - Future vision

---

*This example library represents the most comprehensive demonstration of configuration format capabilities ever assembled. From simple key-value pairs to revolutionary AI-native features, explore the full potential of intelligent configuration management.* 🚀
